Selenium IDE
------------
IDE stands for itegrated development envirronment.This the record & play back tool of selenium,which works on FF browser.

Installing IDE
--------------
1. Launch FF
2. Open seleniumhq.org
3. Click on downloads
4. Go to "selenium IDE" part & download the latest version. IDE is    gets installed as an addon under tools menu.
5. IDE contains 2 sections (Table, Source)
    1. Table is divided into 3 parts (Command,Target,Value)
 
        command contains the list of selenese commands that were              generated during recording,
       
        Target sepecifies were these are executed ,
       
        Value specifies with what data the commands are executed.

    2. The Source section contains the HTML code generated during recording.This HTML code can be converted
       into other languages through the other navigations
       Click on Options --> Click on Options  --> Check "Enable expermental features" --> click on OK
       Click on Options  --> Click on format --> convert it to which ever language you required

Note: IDE program cannot be executed when it is present in other languages.It will run only in HTML

Advantages of IDE
------------------
1. No programming knowledge
2. Code can be converted into multiple languages


Disadvantages of IDE
--------------------
1. Recording can be done only on FF
2. Cannot perform data driven Testing(there is no such concept of parametarization)
3. It supports only linear testing framework



orangehrm

Selenium Commands
-----------------

1. Open - This is used to navigate to a URL. A forward slash in target area represents th e base URL
2. Click - on  a link,image,button,radiobutton,checkbox etc..... It accepts one argument.
            The location where it has to click.
3. clickAndWait - This will click on element & wait for next page to load.By default it waits for 30 sec
4. type - This used to enter the text into i/p fields.It accepts 2 arguments
           a. The location where it has to enter
	   b. Data to be entered
5. select -  This used to select an option from the dropdown.It accets 2 arguments
	   a. Name of the dropdown
	   b. Option to be selected from the dropdown

Verifications & Assertions
--------------------------

Verification commands are used to check if element is present in page or not.If element is present
it will gives us passed status & continue.If the element is not present it will give a failed status.
But still continue the execution of program
  Ex: verifyText
      verifyElementPresent

Assertions commands on the other hand are also used to check if an element is present or not.but they 
stops the execution of a program if the element not found.
  Ex: assertText
      asertAlert

Default waiting time of selenium IDE is 30 sec.This can be modify using following navigations
We are clicking on options --> options --> Go to default timeout value and change the time.



Create multiple test cases
Save them as a single test suit
click on play entire test suite button

Dubuggging in IDE
This can be done by inserting a break point

1. Right click on command where the break point should be inserted
2. click on toggle break point
 we will find a pause symbol generated on that command



User Extensions
---------------
These are java script programes which are used to enhance the capabilities of IDE
By default IDE doesn't support while loops and goto statements
but we can implement them using user extensions

1. open selenium .org
2. Click on documentations
3. Go to seleniumIDE part and click on "user extensions"
4. click on "page" link
5. click on https://github.com/73rhodes/sideflow 
6. click on "clone or download" button
7. click on download zip
8. Extract it and open it we will find a "slideflow.js" file in it
9. open IDE --> click on options --> click on options
10. Go to selenium core extensions
11. Browse the path of sideflow.js file
12. click on Ok --> Restart IDE


Running IDE scripts on multiple Browsers
----------------------------------------
IDE can perform recording only on FF.But recorded script can be executed on other Browsers
For doing this little setup is necessary.

